# Intro

The data challenge we chose to tackle is the one proposed by Elmy, a company that provides electricity to its customers. The challenge consists in predicting the difference between the price of electricity on the Intraday market and the SPOT market. The difference can be positive or negative, and the goal is to predict the sign of this difference correctly. The problem can be approached as a forecasting problem, as the difference can be modeled as a regression, or as a classification problem. The metric used to evaluate the performance of the model is the Weighted Accuracy, which means that the proportion of predictions whose sign is correctly identified is weighted by the absolute value of the observed differences. This metric is relevant as many small hard to predict variations occurs but are not very significant, while a few large variations are very significant and should be predicted correctly. Some of the main challenges of this project is the short time frame of the data (a bit more than a year) and the high proportion of missing values in the data.

In this report we will present the different steps we took to tackle this challenge, from the data exploration to the model evaluation. We will first present the data and the preprocessing steps we took to handle the missing values and augment the data. Then we will present the different models we tried and the results we obtained. Finally, we will discuss the limitations of our approach and the potential improvements that could be made.